# Krautpaddy's General Tips

## Purpose
I said that eventually I wanted to make a page that had generalized tips and recommendations, and here it is! Below you'll find my thoughts on studying for this degree program (and in general), how to get into reading when you don't think you have the attention span anymore, and tips for preparing for Objective Assessments and Performance Assessments. I've also included books that I've found helpful, that you might not really need to pass the degree program, but will likely help you become a better Computer Scientist.

<br />

## But I Don't Like to Read!
I know, that's what I said too about a year ago. However, I also didn't have the attention span for even video or audio materials. I struggled to maintain my attention on really anything and it was hurting both my ability to learn and my motivation. Looking back, I realize how dumb it was of me to say "I can't learn this, this is too difficult!" when I often could have found what I was looking for in a textbook!


Before I put together this repo, I spent some time researching how to improve my attention span. I decided that my best shot would be to face it head on by developing a habit of reading daily. First I started with books on topics I enjoyed, like gaming, short fiction, etc. Then I moved onto longer books about learning and studying which, by that point, I was very interested in and found myself averaging at at least 50 pages on a busy day. On a quiet day I could manage to read the entirety of an almost 300 page book. Obviously, there's some nuance to that. If a book is very dry and highly technical it took me longer than a thrilling fiction or a user-friendly Pragmatic Bookshelf book. 


The most important thing, however, is that I understand what I'm reading and I can recall what I've learned. A good way to help with this is to take notes. If you've read **How to Read a Book** you'll know the author Mortimer Alder's definition of "owning" a book means actively reading; making notes in it, making earmarks of the pages, etc. But if you're wary about ruining the value of your $200 textbook or have an ebook, that isn't as simple. In those cases I recommend keeping something that you can take notes in nearby; whether it be loose leaf paper, a notebook, a computer with a tablet, or even a whiteboard that you can take pictures of. You'll find when reading books that have practice exercises, this will come in handy.

<br />

## I Want to Read, But I Can't Focus
I think I was a bit fortunate that before I even started working on my attention span, I'd already quit social media (aside from the Reddit I use to post links to the repo). On the other hand, I still had other distractions that were negging me on. I frequently checked my email when I wasn't expecting anything, I was drawn into watching clickbait videos for hours, and I browsed the internet for things that weren't worthwhile. Clearly, I didn't value my own time. Also during the early efforts of my reading habit, I realized that I struggled to read while listening to anything with words, so I switched to long atmospheric tracks (like a calm game background OST, the sound of rain and thunder, etc) or read in silence.


Reading **Deep Work** early on also gave me a lot of tips for minimizing wasteful activities by scheduling them in around reading. Eventually I found myself less interested in said activities and more interested in whatever I planned to read for the day. This isn't to say I no longer spend any time doing activities other than reading, but anything I do matters because I realize my time is more valuable than clickbait videos. And even more important; texts, messages, emails, etc; most people are reasonable enough to not expect a one-minute response.


If you're still stuck in the social media loop but either don't want to or are afraid of leaving the likes of Facebook and Twitter for business or other purposes (like say, you want to delete your Facebook account, but rely on the Messenger app), I recommend just making it more difficult to get there. To pull myself away from my Gmail I instead switched from Google's search browser to DuckDuckGo (which is also far less distracting to do *necessary* searches), stopped saving my history and cookies (so I had to type in the entire web address to get there instead of hitting a recommended link), and stopped saving my credentials for websites in my browser. That way if I had a quick urge to hop on social media, it required me to jump through hoops, ultimately giving myself more time to reign back in my attention.

<br />

## I Want to Read, But How Do I Get Through a 1K Page Book?!
After I finished **Deep Work** and created an acceptable study environment with as minimal distractions as possible, I moved on to creating a plan of attack for what I would study next. I'm one of those people who likes to plan out things on spreadsheets and charts, however, planning can often times be a little inflexible or in my case; my plans weren't realistic. You may have heard of S.M.A.R.T. Goals before, they are **S**pecific, **M**easureable, **A**chieveable, **R**elevant, and **T**imely. 


Basically, they're guidelines on how to set goals that *are* realistic. You want your goals to be specific; not "I'm going to pass C949" but *"I'm going to read blahblahblah on Tree Traversals"*. They also have to be something that you can measure like; *"I'm going to read chapter 1 of **The Book of Proof**"* versus *"I'm going to finish my degree"*. They need to be achieveable, so don't make your goals something like *"Today I'm going to read the entirety of **Calculus** by James Stewart in one sitting."* Of course, they must be relevant to whatever your end goal is; if your end goal is to finish Calculus, *"Watch video on Baby Pandas"* might not be relevant (unless those baby Pandas are going to show you how to do Related Rates). And lastly, it has to be timely; as in, you need to set a realistic end date. So, for example, if your end-goal is to complete C482, make your goal *"Submit my C482 project on [enter month] [enter date]"*, not *"Do my C482 project"*.


I used my knowledge of S.M.A.R.T. Goals in my new plan of attack. First I figured out what I wanted to read (specifically, what was relevent to what I was stuck on in my BS CS learning). For this example, I'm going to use the book **A Common Sense Guide to Data Structures and Algorithms**. It's a short book, only a little more than 200 pages and like a lot of books, has a table of contents in the front. The content is seperated into 14 chapters, all of which are less than 30 pages long. So what I did was create a daily goal of *"Read chapter x of **A Common Sense Guide to Data Structures and Algorithms**"* (where x = the next chapter) with the 14th day of my reading being the day I'd finish. 

Obviously, it's very **specific** because I know *exactly* what I have to do. It's **measureable** because I can tell how *far* I've gotten through the book by my position in it. It's **achieveable** because *I know that I can* sit and read a 30 page chapter within a day and on days where I'm really engaged, *I could* easily read additional chapters. It's **relevant** because I'm learning about Computer Science and knowing the contents of the book *will help me*. And lastly, it's **timely** because *I know when I'll be done* at the latest; after 14 days.

This can easily be expanded to larger books too. Let's say you want to read the entirety of **Discrete Mathematics and it's Applications** *(Rosen)*, which is only 13 chapters long, but also nears 1k pages. While you could read a chapter a day, I recommend, with books that have a lot of practice examples like Math, Science, and Programming textbooks, instead break it into smaller chunks. Instead of reading the entirety of chapter 1, read Chapter 1-1 to 1-4 so you have time to do all the problems. Again, make it small enough so it's reasonable to accomplish it and that if you're ahead one day that you can power through more of it, yet large enough that it's still a challenge. But never make a goal so difficult that you constantly fail at it and instead opt to give up.

<br />

## What about the exam?
The final piece of my plan of attack was test preparation. I would make sure to write out an exact date that I wanted to take my exams or hand in my projects, giving myself enough time to adequetly prepare. For projects, I would break down the requirements for it into a goal for each day, usually related to the rubric. For example, for C867 I broke down each of the individual files necessary in the project into its own day and also gave myself a few days where I could research the project requirements. So on Day 1 I worked on one of the Class headers, writing out every class function and attribute that was required and running tests to make sure that they could be called (I frequently found I would put thisVariable on the header and ThisVariable on the cpp file). 

For C768, C188, or any Performance Assessment requiring a paper, it'd be a similar structure. Instead of splitting my time up coding, I would just write to the rubric, and instead give myself a day or so for proofreading. For the most part, passing the Performance Assessments isn't too bad if you know what's being asked and follow the rubric to a minimum.

When it comes to Objective Assessments, aside from studying, I like to do a bit of research first. Of course you can look on Reddit for write-ups with tips on how to study, but often times the courses will change and so will the competencies. During my time taking C172 I got to take both the 2nd and 3rd versions of the course, which were radically different in the emphasis on Security foundations in the OA, and having been new, there were no resources available for it. So when you prepare for your Objective Assessments, my suggestions are to figure out the cutoff score, figure out the percentages of each competency, and determine how many questions you must get correct to safely pass.

You used to be able to find the cutoff score in the app, but I believe it's been removed. However, you should be able to find it using inspect element on the course page. Using Calculus as an example again, C958's OA has 54 questions and a cutoff score of 68%, which means you need to get 37 questions correct at a *minimum* to pass. Now, if you take the Pre-Assessment or the Objective Assessment once you'll get access to Coaching Reports that break down the competencies and the percentage of each competency on the final assessment. I believe for most Objective Assessments, the PA and OA competency percentages are identical. For C958 it breaks down to; Limits 19%, Derivatives 44%, Integrals 30%, and Differential Equations 7%. 

Again, you can determine the expected amount of questions based on those percentages as well. Rounding you get 10 questions for Limits, 24 for Derivatives, 16 for Integrals, and 4 for Differential Equations. Using that you can plan how best to study. In this case it's pretty clear to see that together, Derivatives and Integrals make up more than required to pass (given you got every question correct). However, there's always the chance that you won't get 100% correct in any competency, so plan accordingly.

While you're studying I also recommend taking the Pre-Assessment multiple times as a sort of baseline to measure your progress. Of course, to do this effectively, you have to avoid looking at the individual questions and answers from it, as the Pre-Assessment will not change. Then, using it to determine what you're struggling with, take the concepts you scored the worst on and study them first. For example, if I were studying for C958 and failed Integration by Parts on the PA, I would focus on Integration by Parts until I could do them in my sleep. <sup>(And now I can Integrate by Parts in my sleep)</sup>


Now when actually taking your Objective Assessment, I have a few more tips I've found helpful. The first is; if you're allowed to bring a Whiteboard, *bring a whiteboard*. I know what you're thinking, *even for the non-math OAs?* Yes, every exam that you can use a whiteboard for, it is invaluable. When I'm preparing for an exam, I'll create a bit of a cheat-sheet for myself of easy to remember notes that I can regurgitate on demand. For example, for C958, I created a cheat sheet with helpful formulas I knew wouldn't be on the formula sheet and reminders like *"Acceleration = 2nd Derivative"*, *"Inst Velocity = 1st Derivative"*, *"Avg Velocity = Slope"*. I took the time to memorize these handy notes and then, when the exam began and I was allowed to start writing on my whiteboard, I filled it with all that I could remember. For something like C172, I wrote out the CIA Triad's definitions abridged, for C779, I wrote out important business related definitions.

Second, when I started taking these exams I knew I had a tendency to stress out when I couldn't answer a question (and specifically with math, time is really of the essence) and would hang on it for far longer than necessary. To combat this, I developed my own strategy for test taking. Keeping in mind the amount I needed correct (it may help to add this to the whiteboard when your test begins), I would go through the entire test once, answering only questions that I felt 100% confident on during my first attempt. If I wasn't 100% sure of the answer, I didn't answer it. Instead, I flagged those questions and continued to the next one. Eventually when I reached the end of the exam, I would look to see how many flagged vs answered questions I had. If I flagged only a few, I felt more confident in my chances.

Then, I would go through the exam a second time using the Question review, only viewing questions I tagged for later. In a similar fashion to the first run through, I would give every question one more look. If I was more confident about my answer than not, I would answer and unflag it, if not, I kept it flagged and moved on. I then would repeat this until I made an educated guess on every problem. Since I adopted this strategy combined with the above planning, I have not failed a single exam yet. 

In addition to that, it also helps to have experience with multiple choice exams. When making educated guesses, get rid of obviously incorrect answers and give it your best attempt. Never leave anything unattempted when you go to submit. An educated guess, especially with obviously incorrect answers knocked out could be between a 25%-50% win, an unattempted question is an automatic loss. Also, make sure you understand exactly what the question is asking you, if you don't, break it down in a way that makes sense. With C958, an easy way to determine which method of Integration an answer is looking for can be determined by the structure of the answers. Integration by Parts questions have answers with (expression) -/+ (expression) where something in the second expression is something that was integrated from the first expression and almost never use division. U-Substitution's are much cleaner and usually lack that uniformity and -/+ in the middle.

<br />

## Alright, tell me about these books
Now the moment you probably came here for! My book recommendations are below, and I'll be continuing to add onto them as I read and learn more. Now, I tried to tailor these to books that would be helpful for those learning computer science through this degree program. But there are tons of things that are worth knowing about related to CS that just aren't in this program (like Vector Calculus (Calc 3), Linear Algebra, Theory of Computation, Distributed Systems, etc), so I'll try to include a section for just them below.

<br />

---------

<br />

## Book Recommendations
To save everyone's browsers from being turned to paste by all of the book covers, I've decided to split this and move the book recs to its own page. I'm going to be updating them throughout the week, I've just been a little tired. [You can check them out here.](BookRecs.md).
